{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sam Vernaza\
Written Assignment\
Project #4\
\
I\'92m submitting another partially completely project and truth be told I only couldn\'92t complete it because I was stuck on one function in my read output that made it so that I can\'92t continue the implementation. I had everything else mapped out and planned and I cannot think of a solution that would allow me to complete this program as it currently stands. I\'92m getting a bit frustrated with this course and instead of telling you about the flow of my program I\'92d rather write about the things I\'92m having the most trouble with. \
\
I\'92m coming from another school and of course this college had a different format for its course. The major difference is that we had 2 hour sessions and 2 hours of lab. The lab manuals were designed so that before every project you had a guided approach to learning the material. As the old saying goes, if you want something done write, you need to do it yourself. I take this approach and attempt to apply it to this course, but there just aren\'92t enough resources that I\'92m aware of on campus to get what I need. I research plenty of hours in my own time trying to work out bugs and whatnot, but the truth be told having a space where I can collaborate with other CS students would be a great resource for me. I don\'92t need the answers, I need to be explained why things happen the way that they do. This is now my second assignment that I\'92ll be turning in and receiving a very low score for. It\'92s sad, too because I know that I\'92m capable of solving these programs and it seems like no matter what I do I\'92m unable to progress because there isn\'92t a tutoring center on campus or a team of CS students the I can reach out to. If I was aware of any sources that would be helpful to me I\'92d certainly use them. I\'92m going to keep working on this assignment and I\'92ll be submitting it when I have a solution. Why? Because doing it is going to be the only way that I learn, but also because quite possibly I\'92m missing something in the grand scope of all of this. Either way, there needs to be a change in this course for me and it comes from being told where my weaknesses are and what I can do to change them. Also, as the rate that this course is progressing, I think it\'92s a little too rapid to actually grasp some of the major concepts. I would think to counter the speed of this course having more PASS sessions available (almost every day of the school week) could be a huge resource for students. I know what I\'92m capable of coding, but I have my own reasons for not being able to finish this program. I also know that I\'92m not the only one who is getting held up on projects because of simple bugs and there definitely should be a resource on campus to deal with such situations. I really would like to know what resources are available to me and if there is a lounge or an area where the majority of the CS students can collaborate and work on projects, that\'92s what I\'92m looking for. I generally need the slight guidance of someone to point out some little bumps in my learning, but every now and again it\'92s a major issue that only someone with experience could point out. If this is possible and you think that there is a solution, please let me know. \
\
Thank you, \
\
Sam.}